h1. Start the demo application

h2. with maven3 (jetty)

bc. mvn rails3:rake -Dargs="db:setup"
mvn jetty:run -f Gemfile.pom

p. note: there is no need to have jruby, rubygems, rails installed !!!

h2. with ruby-maven gem (jetty)

bc. jruby -S gem install ruby-maven --pre
rmvn rake db:setup
rmvn jetty-run

p. note: you need to have jruby installed but no rails or bundler !!!

h2. with jruby (webrick)

bc. jruby -S bundle install
jruby -S rake db:setup
jruby script/rails server

p. note: you to have jruby and bundler installed !!!

h2. with ruby (webrick)

bc. bundle install
rake db:setup
script/rails server

p. note: you to have bundler installed !!!

h1. Navigate through the application

p. I use the jetty port 8080 for the sample urls. startuing point is

bc. http://localhost:8080/users:"http://localhost:8080/users"

p. where you can login into the different users. the url for the different resources are:

bc. http://localhost:8080/users:"http://localhost:8080/users"
http://localhost:8080/domains:"http://localhost:8080/domains"
http://localhost:8080/asia/courses:"http://localhost:8080/asia/courses"
http://localhost:8080/europe/courses:"http://localhost:8080/europe/courses"

p. the users have following hard coded groups (see *app/models/user.rb*):

bc.      "root" => [:root], 
      "admin" => [:users, :courses], 
      "registrar" => [:courses] , 
      "teacher" => [:teacher] 

p. and domain-group associations are (see *app/controllers/courses_controller.rb*) -- user_name:group_name => [domain_name_1, domain_name_2, ...]:

bc. "admin:courses" => ["asia", "europe"],
          "registrar:courses" => ["asia"],
          "teacher:teacher" => ["europe"]

p. the root can anything on all resources and set the application into maintanance mode which restrict the allowed groups to (see *app/controllers/users_controller.rb*):

bc. teacher, courses

p. the admin can modify _users, courses_ and the registrar _courses_ in the domain _asia_. the teacher has only read access to the _courses_ in _europe_.

p. any other user has no permissions beside the _logout_.
